---
layout: post
title: Ruby - map()
permalink: map.html
categories: ruby map function block
---

Hi, today we will see how the map function does work. We will recode one as well as the other function that the map function can call.

You can use the map function like this :

__main.rb__
{% highlight ruby %}
[1, 2, 3].map { |elem| elem * 2 }
=> [2, 4, 6]

[1, 2, 3].map(&:to_s)
=> ["1", "2", "3"]
{% endhighlight %}

You can't give map both a block and an argument, you have to choose.

In the first case, the map function will browse the array and multiply each elements of the array by 2. On the second case, the map function will also browse the array, but will call for each element the __to_s__ function. How the eck is that possible ?

## Recoding map
Just to make sure we understand everything we can recode the function. Here is our implementation of map :

__map.rb__
{% highlight ruby %}
class Array
  def map(&block)
    result = []
    self.each { |elem| result << block.call(elem) }
    result
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}

Okay, let's see what do we got here ? First we use open class technique to redefine the native map function. We iterate on the array using the self keyword and the each function. Then we add the result of `block.call(elem)` in result and return when all the iteration are done. What the eck does `block.call(elem)` mean ?

* __Explicit block__ : In ruby, when you use the `&` symbol as parameter you specify that explicitly this parameter will be a block.

The map function in ruby call the to_proc function trying to convert the block variable (`:to_s`) into a proc.

As stated by the [doc](Returns a Proc object which respond to the given method by sym.) of ruby, this is the `to_proc` definition of the function of the Symbol class :
> returns a Proc object which respond to the given method by sym.

We now know that block.call is a proc calling the to_s function on the parameter given. In other word the to_s function is called on each elem of the array through a proc.

Let's recode the to_proc method of the Symbol's class

{% highlight ruby %}
class Symbol
  def to_proc
    proc { |obj, args| elem.send(self, *args) }
  end
end
{% endhighlight %}

Okay, you think I am crazy but I can assure you it's not that difficult. block.call is ... called by the map function (`map.rb`), passing `elem` (one of the object when iterating the array) as parameter into the `to_proc` function of the symbol class as the `obj` parameter, and from here we call the send function with `self` which is equal to `:to_s` and guess what ? Have you ever seen a line of code like this : `1.send(:to_s)` yep ! You do ! And that's how we get a result like `["1", "2"]`
